Add IBC Hello World tutorial (#546)
cosmos/sdk-tutorials: hello-world/tutorial/index.md

## Overview

We will create a blog module to write posts on other blockchains that contain our Hello World message (or rather Hello Mars and Hello Earth) for an IBC module.

Making our module example simple, we create an app that contains a blog module which has a post transaction (title and text). 

After defining our logic, we will run two blockchains that have this module installed.
The chains can send posts between each other through IBC. 
On the sending chain, we save both: `acknowledged` and `timed out` posts.

Once the receiving chain `acknowledges` the transaction, we can be sure that the post is saved on both blockchains.
The sending chain will have the additional data `postID`. Acknowledged and timed out sent posts contain the title and the target chain of the post to identify it, this will be visible on the parameter `chain`. The following chart can help you making sense of the lifecycle of a packet that travels through IBC. 

> [https://whimsical.com/ibc-hello-world-Mtnd3ERtqeLZDXapDLGR8P](https://whimsical.com/ibc-hello-world-Mtnd3ERtqeLZDXapDLGR8P)

Author: TODO: use infographic from design, WIP

```go
// planet/proto/blog/packet.proto
// this line is used by starport scaffolding # ibc/packet/proto/message
// IbcPostPacketData defines a struct for the packet payload
message IbcPostPacketData {
	string title = 1;
    string content = 2;
    string creator = 3; // < ---
}
```

We want to make sure the receiving chain has content on the creator of a blog post. We add this value to our IBC `packet`.
`SendIbcPost` message automatically has the content of the `sender` of the message, this value is already used and verified as the signer of the message. We can therefore add the `msg.Sender` as creator to the new packet before sending it over IBC

```go
// planet/x/blog/keeper/msg_server_ibcPost.go
// Construct the packet
	var packet types.IbcPostPacketData

	packet.Title = msg.Title
	packet.Content = msg.Content
	packet.Creator = msg.Sender // < ---
	
	// Transmit the packet
	err := k.TransmitIbcPostPacket(
		ctx,
		packet,
		msg.Port,
		msg.ChannelID,
		clienttypes.ZeroHeight(),
		msg.TimeoutTimestamp,
	)
```

> ## Receiving the post
> 
> We are at the heart of our transaction logic, located inside `planet/x/blog/keeper/ibcPost.go`
> 
> This file contain three methods that will help us learn the core methods about IBC packets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Receive the Post

The methods for primary transaction logic are in the `planet/x/blog/keeper/ibcPost.go` file. Use these methods to manage IBC packets:
```

> - `TransmitIbcPostPacket` called manually to send the packet over IBC, it can also define the logic before the packet is sent over IBC to another blockchain app
> - `OnRecvIbcPostPacket` hook (automatically called) when a packet is received on the chain, we define here the logic of packet reception
> - `OnAcknowledgementIbcPostPacket` hook when a sent packet is acknowledged on the source chain, we define here logics when we know the packet has been received
> - `OnTimeoutIbcPostPacket` hook when a sent packet is timed out, we define here logics when we know the packet will never be received on the target chain

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `TransmitIbcPostPacket` is called manually to send the packet over IBC. This method also defines the logic before the packet is sent over IBC to another blockchain app.
- `OnRecvIbcPostPacket` hook is automatically called when a packet is received on the chain. This method defines the packet reception logic.
- `OnAcknowledgementIbcPostPacket` hook is called when a sent packet is acknowledged on the source chain. This method defines the logic when the packet has been received.
- `OnTimeoutIbcPostPacket` hook is called when a sent packet times out. This method defines the logic when the packet is not received on the target chain
```

Reviewer: teach me more! I think these changes are accurate

> What we need to add into the source code is the logic inside those functions to add to the datatables accordingly.
> 
> On reception of the message, we create a new post with the title and the content on the receiving chain.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must modify the source code to add the logic inside those functions so that the data tables are modified accordingly.

On reception of the message, we create a new post with the title and the content on the receiving chain.

```

<!-- Though we didn't specify it in the command, the post type automatically contains a creator field. This field is filled when the type instance is created through a message. -->
<!-- We can reuse this field.  -->

> In order to identify which blockchain app a message is coming from, but also who created the message, we will use an identifier in the following format:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To identify the blockchain app that a message is originating from and who created the message, use an identifier in the following format:
```

`<portID>-<channelID>-<creatorAddress>`

> These parameters need to be added when creating the IBC packet.
> 
> Finally, the AppendPost function generated by starport returns the ID of the new appended post. We can return this value to the source chain through acknowledgment.
> 
> Append the type instance on receiving the packet: the `ctx`, our above defined identifier format, the `title` and the `content` as `PostID`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You must add these parameters when creating the IBC packet.

Finally, the AppendPost function that is generated by Starport returns the ID of the new appended post. You can return this value to the source chain through acknowledgment.

Append the type instance as `PostID` on receiving the packet: (describe what these things are)

- the `ctx`
- the identifier format that you defined earlier
- the `title`
- the `content` 
```

Reviewer: I think a bullet list will help clarify here, not sure what these gizmos are, help me

```go
// planet/x/blog/keeper/ibcPost.go
// OnRecvIbcPostPacket processes packet reception
func (k Keeper) OnRecvIbcPostPacket(ctx sdk.Context, packet channeltypes.Packet, data types.IbcPostPacketData) (packetAck types.IbcPostPacketAck, err error) {
	// validate packet data upon receiving
	if err := data.ValidateBasic(); err != nil {
		return packetAck, err
	}

	packetAck.PostID = k.AppendPost(
		ctx,
		packet.SourcePort+"-"+packet.SourceChannel+"-"+data.Creator,
		data.Title,
		data.Content,
	)

	return packetAck, nil
}
```

> ### Receiving the post acknowledgement
> 
> On the sending blockchain, we store a `sentPost` when we know the post has been received on the target chain.
> 
> We store the title and the target to identify the post.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Receive the Post Acknowledgement

On the sending blockchain, store a `sentPost` so you know that the post has been received on the target chain.

Store the title and the target to identify the post.
```

> By default, when scaffolding a packet, the received acknowledgment data is a type that allows us to identify if the packet treatment has failed, we get `Acknowledgement_Error` if `OnRecvIbcPostPacket` returns an error from the packet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a packet is scaffolded, the default type for the received acknowledgment data is a type that identifies if the packet treatment has failed. The `Acknowledgement_Error` type is set if `OnRecvIbcPostPacket` returns an error from the packet.
```

Reviewer: more learning required! sorry so many edit suggestions

```go
// OnAcknowledgementIbcPostPacket responds to the the success or failure of a packet
// acknowledgement written on the receiving chain.
func (k Keeper) OnAcknowledgementIbcPostPacket(ctx sdk.Context, packet channeltypes.Packet, data types.IbcPostPacketData, ack channeltypes.Acknowledgement) error {
	switch dispatchedAck := ack.Response.(type) {
	case *channeltypes.Acknowledgement_Error:
		// We will not treat acknowledgment error in this tutorial
		return nil
	case *channeltypes.Acknowledgement_Result:
		// Decode the packet acknowledgment
		var packetAck types.IbcPostPacketAck
		err := packetAck.Unmarshal(dispatchedAck.Result)
		if err != nil {
			// The counter-party module doesn't implement the correct acknowledgment format
			return errors.New("cannot unmarshal acknowledgment")
		}

		k.AppendSentPost(
			ctx,
			data.Creator,
			packetAck.PostID,
			data.Title,
			packet.DestinationPort+"-"+packet.DestinationChannel,
		)

		return nil
	default:
		// The counter-party module doesn't implement the correct acknowledgment format
		return errors.New("invalid acknowledgment format")
	}
}
```

> ### Storing information about timed out packet

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Store Information about the Timed-out Packet
```

> In `timedoutPost` posts we store posts that have not been received by target chains. It follows the same format as `sentPost` 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Store posts that have not been received by target chains in `timedoutPost` posts. This logic follows the same format as `sentPost`.
```

```go
// OnTimeoutIbcPostPacket responds to the case where a packet has not been transmitted because of a timeout
func (k Keeper) OnTimeoutIbcPostPacket(ctx sdk.Context, packet channeltypes.Packet, data types.IbcPostPacketData) error {

	k.AppendTimedoutPost(
		ctx,
		data.Creator,
		data.Title,
		packet.DestinationPort+"-"+packet.DestinationChannel,
	)

	return nil
}
```

> That is our basic `blog` module setup.
> The blockchain is now ready!
> 
> Let's spin it up and send a blog post from one blockchain app to the other.
> We will need various terminal windows for this.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is the basic `blog` module setup.
The blockchain is now ready!

Spin up the blockchain and send a blog post from one blockchain app to the other.

You will need various terminal windows to complete these next steps.
```

> ## IBC module tests

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Test the IBC modules
```

Reviewer: add a brief context statement here

> ### Starting the chains

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Start the chains
```

> To test the IBC module, we will serve with starport two blockchain networks on the same machine. Both blockchains uses the same source code but with a different chain ID
> 
> We will have a blockchain network named `earth` and the other name `mars`
> 
> We need the two following files in the project directory:
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To test the IBC module, start two blockchain networks on the same machine. Both blockchains use the same source code. Each blockchain has a unique chain ID.

We will have a blockchain network named `earth` and the other name `mars`

We need the two following files in the project directory:

```

`planet/earth.yml`

```yaml
accounts:
  - name: alice
    coins: ["1000token", "100000000stake"]
  - name: bob
    coins: ["500token"]
validator:
  name: alice
  staked: "100000000stake"
faucet:
  name: bob
  coins: ["5token"]
genesis:
  chain_id: "earth"
init:
  home: "$HOME/.earth"
```

`planet/mars.yml`

```yaml
accounts:
  - name: alice
    coins: ["1000token", "1000000000stake"]
  - name: bob
    coins: ["500token"]
validator:
  name: alice
  staked: "100000000stake"
faucet:
  port: 4501
  name: bob
  coins:
    - "5token"
servers:
  rpc-address: "0.0.0.0:26659"
  p2p-address: "0.0.0.0:26658"
  prof-address: "0.0.0.0:6061"
  grpc-address: "0.0.0.0:9091"
  api-address: "0.0.0.0:1318"
  frontend-address: "0.0.0.0:8081"
  dev-ui-address: "0.0.0.0:12346"
genesis:
  chain_id: "mars"
init:
  home: "$HOME/.mars"
```

> We can then run the two blockchain networks with the following commands on two separate terminals:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use a  different terminal window for each blockchain. Run the following commands for each blockchain:
```

Reviewer: should we agree to always call a blockchain a blockchain? It seems as if the term "blockchain network" is not used consistently... teach me

Author: A blockchain is a blockchain, agreed 👍

```
starport serve -c earth.yml
starport serve -c mars.yml
```

> ### Starting the relayer
> 
> First we need to configure the relayer, we use the configure command of starport with the `--advanced` option:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Start the Relayer

First, configure the relayer. Use the Starport `configure` command with the `--advanced` option:
```

```
starport relayer configure -a --source-rpc "http://0.0.0.0:26657" --source-faucet "http://0.0.0.0:4500" --source-port "blog" --source-version "blog-1" --target-rpc "http://0.0.0.0:26659" --target-faucet "http://0.0.0.0:4501" --target-port "blog" --target-version "blog-1"
```

> The output will be like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output looks like:
```

```
---------------------------------------------

> Setting up chains

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set up chains
```

Author: This indeed is feedback from Starport 
https://github.com/tendermint/starport/blob/7a221bf9a423b6b66fb19c0786c26ff82b9dec38/starport/interface/cli/starport/cmd/relayer_configure.go#L62

---------------------------------------------

🔐  Account on "source" is "cosmos1xcxgzq75yrxzd0tu2kwmwajv7j550dkj7m00za"

 |· received coins from a faucet
 |· (balance: 5token)

🔐  Account on "target" is "cosmos1nxg8e4mfp5v7sea6ez23a65rvy0j59kayqr8cx"

 |· received coins from a faucet
 |· (balance: 5token)

⛓  Configured chains: earth-mars
```

> Then we can start the relayer process in a separate terminal:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, start the relayer process in a separate terminal window:
```

```
starport relayer connect
```

Results:

```
🔌  Linked chains with 1 paths.

---------------------------------------------
Chains by paths
---------------------------------------------

earth-mars:
    earth > (port: blog) (channel: channel-0)
    mars  > (port: blog) (channel: channel-0)

---------------------------------------------
Listening and relaying packets between chains...
---------------------------------------------
```

> ### Sending packets
> 
> We can now send packets and checks the received posts:
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Send packets

You can now send packets and verify the received posts:

```

```
planetd tx blog send-ibcPost blog channel-0 "Hello" "Hello Mars, I'm Alice from Earth" --from alice --chain-id earth --home ~/.earth
```

> We check if the post has been received on Mars:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To verify that the post has been received on Mars:
```

```
planetd q blog list-post --node tcp://localhost:26659
```

The packet has been received:

```
Post:
- content: Hello Mars, I'm Alice from Earth
  creator: blog-channel-0-cosmos1aew8dk9cs3uzzgeldatgzvm5ca2k4m98xhy20x
  id: "0"
  title: Hello
pagination:
  next_key: null
  total: "1"
```

> Let's check if it has been acknowledge on Earth:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To check if the packet has been acknowledged on Earth:
```

Reviewer: let's repeat the subject instead of using the naked "it"

```
planetd q blog list-sentPost
```

Output:

```
SentPost:
- chain: blog-channel-0
  creator: cosmos1aew8dk9cs3uzzgeldatgzvm5ca2k4m98xhy20x
  id: "0"
  postID: "0"
  title: Hello
pagination:
  next_key: null
  total: "1"
```

> To test timeout, we can set the timeout time of a packet to 1 nanosecond, to be sure the packet will be timed out and to check the timed out posts:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To test timeout, set the timeout time of a packet to 1 nanosecond, verify that the packet is timed out, and check the timed-out posts:
```

```
planetd tx blog send-ibcPost blog channel-0 "Sorry" "Sorry Mars, you will never see this post" --from alice --chain-id earth --home ~/.earth --packet-timeout-timestamp 1
```

> Let's check timed out posts:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Check the timed-out posts:
```

Reviewer: hyphenate timed-out

```
planetd q blog list-timedoutPost
```

Results:

```
TimedoutPost:
- chain: blog-channel-0
  creator: cosmos1fhpcsxn0g8uask73xpcgwxlfxtuunn3ey5ptjv
  id: "0"
  title: Sorry
pagination:
  next_key: null
  total: "2"
```

> We can send a post from Mars as well:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also a post from Mars:
```

```
planetd tx blog send-ibcPost blog channel-0 "Hello" "Hello Earth, I'm Alice from Mars" --from alice --chain-id mars --home ~/.mars --node tcp://localhost:26659
```

List post on Earth:

```
planetd q blog list-post
```

Results:

```
Post:
- content: Hello Earth, I'm Alice from Mars
  creator: blog-channel-0-cosmos1xtpx43l826348s59au24p22pxg6q248638q2tf
  id: "0"
  title: Hello
pagination:
  next_key: null
  total: "1"
```

> 🎉 **Congratulation, you have created your first IBC module!** 🎉 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
🎉 **Congratulations. You created your first IBC module!** 🎉 
```

## Create a Blockchain App

Create a blockchain app with a blog module to write posts on other blockchains that contain the Hello World message (or rather Hello Mars, Hello Cosmos and Hello Earth) for an IBC module.

For this simple example, create an app that contains a blog module that has a post transaction with title and text. 

After you define the logic, run two blockchains that have this module installed.
- The chains can send posts between each other using IBC. 
- On the sending chain, save the `acknowledged` and `timed out` posts.

After the transaction is acknowledged by the receiving chain, you know that the post is saved on both blockchains.
- The sending chain has the additional data `postID`. 
- Sent posts that are acknowledged and timed out contain the title and the target chain of the post. These identifiers are visible on the parameter `chain`. 
The following chart shows the lifecycle of a packet that travels through IBC.

[![The Lifecycle of an IBC packet in the blog module](./packet_sendpost.png)](./packet_sendpost.png)

## Initialize the Blockchain

Scaffold a new blockchain named `planet`

```go

> starport app github.com/tuto/planet

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
starport app github.com/hello/planet
```

Let's do something like `hello` or `user`, or `alice`.

cd planet
```

A new directory named planet is created. This directory contains a working blockchain app.

Scaffold a module inside your blockchain named `blog` with IBC capabilities.
The blog module contains the logic for creating blog posts and routing them through IBC to the second blockchain.

```go
starport module create blog --ibc
```

A new directory with the code for an IBC module is created in `planet/x/blog`. 
The `--ibc` flag includes all the logic for the scaffolded IBC module.

> 1. Create the transction types for the module. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Create the transaction types for the module. 
```

Use the `starport type` command to scaffold a transaction message with Starport.

> The module has the logic for:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now let's implement the following features:
```

- Creating Blog posts
- Processing acknowledgments for sent posts
- Managing post time outs 

```go
starport type post title content --module blog
starport type sentPost postID title chain --module blog
starport type timedoutPost title chain --module blog
```

> These three `starport type` commands create the foundation of the transaction handlers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These three `starport type` commands create CRUD code for managing post, sent posts and timed-out posts types. The scaffolded code includes proto files for defining data structures, messages, messages handlers, keepers for modifying the state and CLI commands.
```

> To manage multiple modules within your Starport app, use the `--module` flag to define which module the new transaction type is added to.

Reviewer 2: The first argument of the `starport type` command specifies the name of the type being created, the following arguments define fields associated with the type. `--module` is an optional flag that allows to specify in which module the type will be scaffolded (without this flag the type is scaffolded in the module that matches the name of the repo).

Scaffold a sendable and interpretable IBC packet that contains the title and the content of the blog post. 

The title and content will be stored on the target chain, while the `postID` will be acknowledged on the sending chain.

While the `starport type` command creates a new transaction type, the `starport packet` command creates the logic for an IBC packet that can be sent to another blockchain. 

> A _packet_ is similar to a transaction but is meant to be stored on another blockchain. _Messages_ are generated when data gets stored on the blockchain that creates the transaction. _Packets_ are used when a transaction interacts using IBC.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

This is false, I suggest we remove this completely.

{synopsis}

```go
starport packet ibcPost title content --ack postID --module blog
```

> You see that the `ibcPost` in the packet looks the same as the `post` transaction.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Notice that fields in the `ibcPost` packet match the ones in the `post` type we created earlier.
```

> - The `--ack` tag defines which identifier is returned to the sending blockchain.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The `--ack` flag defines which identifier is returned to the sending blockchain.
```

> - The `--module blog` tag specifies to return the identifier to be part of the blog module, just like the `post` transaction.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- The `--module` flag specifies that the packet should be created in a particular IBC module.
```

> The `starport packet` command scaffolds a transaction message packet for IBC with the following parameters: 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `starport packet` command also scaffolds a CLI command that is capable of sending an IBC packet:
```

```go

> send-ibcPost <portID> <channelD> <title> <content>

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
planetd tx blog send-ibcPost <portID> <channelD> <title> <content>
```

```

## Modify the Source Code

After creating the types and transactions, you must manually insert the logic to manage updates in the data tables.
Modify the source code to save the data as specified earlier in this tutorial.

### Add Creator to the Blog Post Packet

Start with the proto file that defines the structure of the IBC packet.
To identify the creator of the post in the receiving blockchain, add the creator field inside the packet. 
We did not specify this field directly in the command because it would automatically become a parameter in `SendIbcPost` CLI command. 

```go
// planet/proto/blog/packet.proto
// this line is used by starport scaffolding # ibc/packet/proto/message
// IbcPostPacketData defines a struct for the packet payload
message IbcPostPacketData {

> 	string title = 1;

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    string title = 1;
```

The methods for primary transaction logic are in the `planet/x/blog/keeper/ibcPost.go` file. Use these methods to manage IBC packets:

- `TransmitIbcPostPacket` is called manually to send the packet over IBC. This method also defines the logic before the packet is sent over IBC to another blockchain app.
- `OnRecvIbcPostPacket` hook is automatically called when a packet is received on the chain. This method defines the packet reception logic.
- `OnAcknowledgementIbcPostPacket` hook is called when a sent packet is acknowledged on the source chain. This method defines the logic when the packet has been received.
- `OnTimeoutIbcPostPacket` hook is called when a sent packet times out. This method defines the logic when the packet is not received on the target chain

You must modify the source code to add the logic inside those functions so that the data tables are modified accordingly.

On reception of the message, we create a new post with the title and the content on the receiving chain.

To identify the blockchain app that a message is originating from and who created the message, use an identifier in the following format:

`<portID>-<channelID>-<creatorAddress>`

> You must add these parameters when creating the IBC packet.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

		if err != nil {
			// The counter-party module doesn't implement the correct acknowledgment format
			return errors.New("cannot unmarshal acknowledgment")
		}

		k.AppendSentPost(
			ctx,
			data.Creator,
			packetAck.PostID,
			data.Title,
			packet.DestinationPort+"-"+packet.DestinationChannel,
		)

		return nil
	default:
		// The counter-party module doesn't implement the correct acknowledgment format
		return errors.New("invalid acknowledgment format")
	}
}
```

### Store Information about the Timed-out Packet

Store posts that have not been received by target chains in `timedoutPost` posts. This logic follows the same format as `sentPost`.

```go
// OnTimeoutIbcPostPacket responds to the case where a packet has not been transmitted because of a timeout
func (k Keeper) OnTimeoutIbcPostPacket(ctx sdk.Context, packet channeltypes.Packet, data types.IbcPostPacketData) error {

	k.AppendTimedoutPost(
		ctx,
		data.Creator,
		data.Title,
		packet.DestinationPort+"-"+packet.DestinationChannel,
	)

	return nil
}
```

This is the basic `blog` module setup.
The blockchain is now ready!

Spin up the blockchain and send a blog post from one blockchain app to the other.

> Various terminal windows are required to complete these next steps.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You will need two terminal windows open for the next steps.
```

Author: I think it is two for the blockchains, one more for the relayer and then one to enter the commands?

Reviewer 2: Then "Multiple terminal windows are required to complete these next steps." I just don't think "various" is the right word here.

## Test the IBC modules

To test the IBC module, start two blockchain networks on the same machine. Both blockchains use the same source code. Each blockchain has a unique chain ID.

One blockchain is named `earth` and the other blockchain is named `mars`.

The following files are required in the project directory:

`planet/earth.yml`

```yaml
accounts:
  - name: alice
    coins: ["1000token", "100000000stake"]
  - name: bob
    coins: ["500token"]
validator:
  name: alice
  staked: "100000000stake"
faucet:
  name: bob
  coins: ["5token"]
genesis:
  chain_id: "earth"
init:
  home: "$HOME/.earth"
```

`planet/mars.yml`

```yaml
accounts:
  - name: alice
    coins: ["1000token", "1000000000stake"]
  - name: bob
    coins: ["500token"]
validator:
  name: alice
  staked: "100000000stake"
faucet:

>   port: 4501

Reviewer 3: For `host` option of `faucet` you must provide a complete host (as a string): `"0.0.0.0:4501"`

Otherwise `port` is still supported

>   port: 4501

Reviewer 2: @ltacker do we not support `faucet.host: ":4501"` (without 0s?)

>   port: 4501

Reviewer 3: Yes!

  name: bob
  coins:
    - "5token"
servers:
  rpc-address: "0.0.0.0:26659"
  p2p-address: "0.0.0.0:26658"

>   prof-address: "0.0.0.0:6061"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  prof: ":6061"
```

>   grpc-address: "0.0.0.0:9091"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  grpc: ":9091"
```

>   api-address: "0.0.0.0:1318"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  api: ":1318"
```

>   frontend-address: "0.0.0.0:8081"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  frontend: ":8081"
```

>   dev-ui-address: "0.0.0.0:12346"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  dev-ui: ":12346"
```

genesis:
  chain_id: "mars"
init:
  home: "$HOME/.mars"
```

> Use a  different terminal window for each blockchain. Run the following commands for each blockchain:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Open a terminal window and run the following command to start the "earth" blockchain:
```

```
starport serve -c earth.yml

> starport serve -c mars.yml

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

```

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Open another terminal window and run the following command to start the "mars" blockchain:
```

```
starport serve -c mars.yml
```

### Start the Relayer

> First, configure the relayer. Use the Starport `configure` command with the `--advanced` option:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
First, configure the relayer. Use the Starport `configure` command with the `--advanced` option:
```

Author: What's the suggested change here? I cannot spot the difference

Reviewer 2: Might've been a mistake, please, ignore 🙂

```

> starport relayer configure -a --source-rpc "http://0.0.0.0:26657" --source-faucet "http://0.0.0.0:4500" --source-port "blog" --source-version "blog-1" --target-rpc "http://0.0.0.0:26659" --target-faucet "http://0.0.0.0:4501" --target-port "blog" --target-version "blog-1"

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
starport relayer configure --advanced --source-rpc "http://0.0.0.0:26657" --source-faucet "http://0.0.0.0:4500" --source-port "blog" --source-version "blog-1" --target-rpc "http://0.0.0.0:26659" --target-faucet "http://0.0.0.0:4501" --target-port "blog" --target-version "blog-1"
```

To identify the blockchain app that a message is originating from and who created the message, use an identifier in the following format:

`<portID>-<channelID>-<creatorAddress>`

Finally, the AppendPost function that is generated by Starport returns the ID of the new appended post. You can return this value to the source chain through acknowledgment.

Append the type instance as `PostID` on receiving the packet:

- the context `ctx` is an [immutable data structure](https://docs.cosmos.network/master/core/context.html#go-context-package) that has header data from the transaction. [See how the context is initiated](https://github.com/cosmos/cosmos-sdk/blob/master/types/context.go#L71)
- the identifier format that you defined earlier
- the `title` is the Title of the blog post
- the `content` is the Content of the blog post

```go
// planet/x/blog/keeper/ibcPost.go
// OnRecvIbcPostPacket processes packet reception
func (k Keeper) OnRecvIbcPostPacket(ctx sdk.Context, packet channeltypes.Packet, data types.IbcPostPacketData) (packetAck types.IbcPostPacketAck, err error) {
	// validate packet data upon receiving
	if err := data.ValidateBasic(); err != nil {
		return packetAck, err
	}

> 	packetAck.PostID = k.AppendPost(

Reviewer 4: @Tosch110 [IMPORTANT]
The id of a autoincremented type has been changed to `uint64` therefore we must modify this code to:
```
id := k.AppendPost(
    ctx,
    packet.SourcePort+"-"+packet.SourceChannel+"-"+data.Creator,
    data.Title,
    data.Content,
)
packetAck.PostID = strconv.FormatUint(id, 10)
```

And tells the user to add `"strconv"` in the imports just below `"errors"`

Reviewer 4: I tested back the whole workflow, this is the only change to make :)

Reviewer 2: We also need to mention to import `strconv`, if a dev doesn't use a proper editor.

	k.AppendTimedoutPost(
		ctx,
		data.Creator,
		data.Title,
		packet.DestinationPort+"-"+packet.DestinationChannel,
	)

	return nil
}
```

This is the basic `blog` module setup.
The blockchain is now ready!

Spin up the blockchain and send a blog post from one blockchain app to the other.

Various terminal windows are required to complete these next steps.

## Test the IBC modules

To test the IBC module, start two blockchain networks on the same machine. Both blockchains use the same source code. Each blockchain has a unique chain ID.

One blockchain is named `earth` and the other blockchain is named `mars`.

The following files are required in the project directory:

`planet/earth.yml`

```yaml
accounts:
  - name: alice
    coins: ["1000token", "100000000stake"]
  - name: bob
    coins: ["500token"]
validator:
  name: alice
  staked: "100000000stake"
faucet:
  name: bob
  coins: ["5token"]
genesis:
  chain_id: "earth"
init:
  home: "$HOME/.earth"
```

`planet/mars.yml`

```yaml
accounts:
  - name: alice
    coins: ["1000token", "1000000000stake"]
  - name: bob
    coins: ["500token"]
validator:
  name: alice
  staked: "100000000stake"
faucet:

>   host: "0.0.0.0:4501"

Author: https://github.com/cosmos/sdk-tutorials/pull/546/files/06039ffd76ca0d431b5e12e4967fb5425efbce3b

host: ":4501"

Reviewer 2: Yep, apparently @ltacker has added the `host: ":4501"` syntax for the faucet.

https://github.com/tendermint/starport/pull/833/commits/b10e59b1d45c3a05ee815506484201cd87a5b0f0

Reviewer 3: host: ":4501" works
